---
published: false
---
11.4
What is the common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance?
- The common characteristic of all architectural styles that are geared to supporting software fault tolerance is redundancy along with diversity. This allows two or more software’s to carry out the same task incase of a software fault.

11.7
It has been suggested that the control software for a radiation therapy machine, used to treat patients with cancer, should be implemented using N-version programming. Comment on whether or not you think this is a good suggestion.
- Using N-version programming as a control software for a radiation therapy machine would not be a good idea. I think this because the way N-version programming works is each version of the N-versions of software are run on separate computers and then their outputs are compared using a voting system and the inconsistent or delayed outputs are rejected. When dealing with a person’s life and a disease that is constantly mutating growing exponentially, you want to account for all data recorded even if it is inconsistent because outliers can also appear for a reason and that reason shouldn’t just be pushed aside. It should be studied just as any other day is studied because we need to know as much information on cancer as we can. The only way N-version could be seen as a good suggestion is there are multiple tests running in parallel so that means you are collecting more data in the long run.

11.9
Explain why you should explicitly handle all exceptions in a system that is intended to have a high level of availability.
- If a system has a high level of availability, then that means it needs to be able to run successfully whenever the user needs for as long as possible. If the system has a high level of availability, the system needs to be able to explicitly handle all exceptions to avoid system failure as much as possible if not completely.

12.5
A train protection system automatically applies the brakes of a train if the speed limit for a segment of track is exceeded, or if the train enter a stack segment that is currently signaled with a red light. There are two critical-safety requirements for this train protection system:

The train shall not enter a segment of track that is signaled with a red light.
The train shall not exceed the specified speed limit for a section of track.

Assuming that the signal status and the speed limit for the track segment are transmitted to on-board software on the train before it enters the track segment, propose five possible functional system requirements for the onboard software that many be generated from the system safety requirements.
1.	The software checks if the light is red or green with a simple Boolean.
2.	The software checks speed and if above max level, break is applied.
3.	The software needs to save state of light, current speed, and track segment in two or more separate places for redundancy.
4.	The software uses N-version programming to activate the break.
5.	The software displays warning to user when speed is reaching max level for track segment.


