---
published: true
---
### 1.3: 
### What are the four important attributes that all professional software should possess? Suggest four other attributes that may be significant. 
The four most important attributes that all professional software should possess are maintainability, efficiency, security, and dependanility.
Four other attributes that may be significant in professional software are readability, fluidity, universality with devices, and whether or not it can be scaled for larger or smaller problems. 
### 1.8: 
### Discuss whether professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as doctors or lawyers.
I believe professional software engineers should be licensed in the same way as professional doctors or lawyers are. Similarly to trusting your health with a doctor, you trust your legal life with a lawyer and you trust your personal life with a software engineer. Everything pertaining to your life is managed and stored with software and all this stored data can be easily stolen or manipulated for others use. You want the best qualified software engineers to handle and secure all that important data just like you want the best qualified doctor or lawyer to ensure that your life is in good hands. If your personal data is not placed in the right hands, then your life can quickly turn upside down. 
### 1.9:
### For each of the clauses in the ACM/IEEE Code of Ethics shown in Figure 1.4, propose an appropriate example that illustrates that clause.
1. Public: Constantly modifying functions and code in order to meet the people's changing desires while keeping data secure. 
2. Client and Employer: Creating a software to meet the specifications of a client/employer along with securing people's data.
3. Product: Creating your idea of the next best software without wrongfully taking others code. 
4. Judgement: Greediness and corruption will not compromise a software engineers good intentions.
5. Management: Not letting power get to your head and constantly making sure you check back with your engineers to make sure they are maintaining an ethical approach.
6. Profession: If you work hard and your work is authentic, the integrity and reputation of computer science and software engineering will grow.
7. Colleagues: Strong, healthy relationships must be built with your team in order to create a succesful software. No ones ideas are worse than another. Brainstorming and hearing everyones input will help find the best solution. 
8. Self: Always pushing yourself to be better and aiming to solve the worlds net big issue with having the publics best interst at heart. Lead by example and others will follow. 

### 1.10: 
### To help counter terrorism, many countries are planning or have developed computer systems that track large numbers of their citizens and their actions. Clearly, this has privacy implications. Discuss the ethics of working on the development of this type of system.
