---
published: true
---
Software engineering itself and coding is hard enough, now try factoring in outside forces like scheduling, conflicting conceptual views, or a poor team manager. After reading Frederick P. Brooks Jr.'s, "They Mythical Man-Month", I now see how coding is actually one of the easier parts about developing software. According to Brooks, you are supposed to use the following rule of thumb when scheduling a software task, "1/3 planning, 1/6 coding, 1/4 component testing and early system test, and 1/4 system test, all components in hand" (20). As you can see coding takes up the smallest amount of time while testing takes up fifty percent of the time. Brooks also discussed how the majority of software engineers are young and young people have a lot of optimism. This increased amount of optimism means that they very rarely account for time spent on testing and debugging because they are too optimistic that their code is going to be perfect the first time around. This in turn affects their schedule and will most likely result in an extension in the schedule for the task or a failure to complete the task in the stated time.

One-way companies think they can fix this problem is by adding more men to the team. They think “oh the more people we have on the team the less time it will take. Almost all of the time, it is quite opposite. Brooks makes a great analogy which is it is kind of like adding gasoline to a fire. The bigger the fire gets, the more gasoline you are going to need to add to keep it burning and the more destructive it is potentially becoming. The more men you add to the job, the more your conceptual integrity is going to be at risk. One way to mitigate this risk is with Brooks refers to as a “surgical team”. This surgical team is lead by the chief (surgeon) followed by a copilot, administrator, editor, two secretaries, program clerk, tool smith, tester, and language lawyer. The only 2 people working on the implementation and the conceptual design are mostly the surgeon with a little help of the copilot. The rest of the people are assigned different jobs to aid them but not damage the conceptual integrity of the program. This way only 2 people at most are in control of the concept. Brooks describes another successful, yet more risky way of dividing up work without affecting the conceptual integrity and that is splitting up people based on architecture and implementation. This process is used for large-scale programs and is easier to mess things up but if done right, it can be very efficient. 

This possibility of failure and not being able to get a project done on time is frightening but thrilling at the same time and that is one of the things that makes programming so much fun. You really never know what is going to happen next or obstruct your goal with programming. Everything must be perfect and precise to a T. You may want to rip your hair out at times, but at the end of the day, nothing worth doing is easy. If you truly love something, every obstacle and frustration you run into is just fueling your future success.
