---
published: true
---
### 17.10
### Your company wishes to move from using desktop applications to accessing the same functionality remotely as services. Identify three risks that might arise and suggest how these risks may be reduced.

1. Security 

When transfering your desktop application to remote services, you are faced with many more possible data breaches and hacks. Your code and information is more accesible and easier to tamper with. A way to reduce this risk is testing your software, both the design and the code. The more tests you do, the more breaches you are prepared for. 
2. Speed 

Transfering to remote services means more data being transfered back and forth. Videos for example transfer a lot of data and if multiple users are accessing either the same or different recordings, it all needs to play smoothly and not buffer. One way to reduce this risk is to simply pay to have better speeds or test the code more to see if you can make it perform better.
3. Laws and Regulations

When moving to a remote service, new laws and regulations can come about that were not prevalent for desktop applications. Some countries have different rgulations on storage, management, preservation, and accessibility of data. According to the book, moving data to a remote source could violate the laws. In order to reduce the risk of possibly being arrested, make sure you do your dudilagnece and follow the rules. It will only come back to bite you in the butt at the end. If the country you are in has strict regulations, try to get it licensed in another country.
