---
published: true
---

Almost all software is bound to fail at some point. Whether its before, during, or after testing, it will cause errors. A good software engineer will always create the most amount of test cases possible, failures more than successes. A software may succeed more times than fail in its life span, but all it takes is one failure to seriously cause some damage. This can be seen in both “The Role of Software in Spacecraft Accidents” and “An investigation of the Therac-25 Accidents” by Nancy G. Leveson. Countless patients were either burned or had their health poorly affected by a “radiation therapy machine called the Therac-25” (18) as seen in Leveson’s investigation. This was the result of one of the worst computer bugs in history and it was due to design errors instead of code errors. The machine was recording that no medication was being given so it was overdosing the patient with radiation. One of the accidents Leveson discusses in her other article on spacecrafts involves the Ariane 501. “40 s after initiation of the flight sequence…the launcher veered off its flight path, broke up, and exploded” (2). This was due to another design error and not a code error.  

Another example of poor designing skills instead of poor coding skills is discussed in Robert Charette’s “FBI’S Sentinel System Still Not in Total Shape to Surveil”. A project called the Sentinel was in progress when the FBI decided to finish it because “the assessment indicated that the project… would take at least another $351 million and six more years to complete” on top of the $461 million already spent. The FBI decided to take their own approach in the design of the code to get the project completed sooner. The FBI completed the project sooner and for a far lower price than the experts predicted. The FBI released the Sentinel to the public, despite the fact they knew “there remain major problems in [its] two critical functions.” This ties back to our last discussion on ethics. What they did was unethical. They released a half-assed project to the public. 

Software failures occur for multiple reasons and Thomas Smale dives deeper into them in his article called “Why Software Projects Fail, and the Traps You Can Avoid That Could Spell Disaster”. A couple of the reasons he states are insufficient time to complete the project, inadequate planning, too many people assigned to the project, failure to find a good project manager and more. In the example with the FBI, to many people were assigned to the project and there was no good project manager. The private companies’ developers were assigned to it, then the FBI’s developers were assigned to it so that could result in too much mixture of code. It also provides an example for bad project management because they used a less efficient and more cost-effective software design to save money and release the project sooner, knowing their function results were not accurate. Software failures more times than not, come from design errors instead of code errors. In my eyes I see this as the project managers not giving a good enough design for the programmers to follow along with inadequate planning before the coding actually started in order to set a common goal for designers and coders.
